---
layout: post
category: ACM
tags: 最大流
title: HDU 1532 Drainage Ditches
---
[HDU 1532 Drainage Ditches](http://acm.hdu.edu.cn/showproblem.php?pid=1532)

第一道最大流问题，EK算法模板题～～～
<!--more-->
# Drainage Ditches

Time Limit: 2000/1000 MS (Java/Others)    Memory Limit: 65536/32768 K (Java/Others)
Total Submission(s): 19286    Accepted Submission(s): 9209


## Problem Description
Every time it rains on Farmer John's fields, a pond forms over Bessie's favorite clover patch. This means that the clover is covered by water for awhile and takes quite a long time to regrow. Thus, Farmer John has built a set of drainage ditches so that Bessie's clover patch is never covered in water. Instead, the water is drained to a nearby stream. Being an ace engineer, Farmer John has also installed regulators at the beginning of each ditch, so he can control at what rate water flows into that ditch.
Farmer John knows not only how many gallons of water each ditch can transport per minute but also the exact layout of the ditches, which feed out of the pond and into each other and stream in a potentially complex network. 
Given all this information, determine the maximum rate at which water can be transported out of the pond and into the stream. For any given ditch, water flows in only one direction, but there might be a way that water can flow in a circle. 
 

### Input
The input includes several cases. For each case, the first line contains two space-separated integers, N (0 <= N <= 200) and M (2 <= M <= 200). N is the number of ditches that Farmer John has dug. M is the number of intersections points for those ditches. Intersection 1 is the pond. Intersection point M is the stream. Each of the following N lines contains three integers, Si, Ei, and Ci. Si and Ei (1 <= Si, Ei <= M) designate the intersections between which this ditch flows. Water will flow through this ditch from Si to Ei. Ci (0 <= Ci <= 10,000,000) is the maximum rate at which water will flow through the ditch.
 

### Output
For each case, output a single integer, the maximum rate at which water may emptied from the pond. 
 

### Sample Input
```
5 4
1 2 40
1 4 20
2 4 20
2 3 30
3 4 10
```

### Sample Output
```
50
```

## 代码
```c++
#include <cstdio>
#include <cstring>
#include <iostream>
#include <algorithm>
#include <queue>
using namespace std;
const int N = 500;
const int INF = 0x3f3f3f3f;
int n;//图中点的数目
int m;//边数
int pre[N];//路径纪录, i的上一个节点为pre[i]
int mp[N][N];
bool vis[N];
bool BFS(int s, int t)//广搜寻找增广路
{
    queue<int>q;
    memset(vis, false, sizeof(vis));
    memset(pre, -1, sizeof(pre));
    pre[s] = s, vis[s] = true;
    q.push(s);
    while(!q.empty())
    {
        int u = q.front();
        q.pop();
        for(int i = 1; i <= n; i++)
        {
            if(mp[u][i] && !vis[i])
            {
                pre[i] = u;
                vis[i] = true;
                if(i == t)//找到增广路，返回true
                    return true;
                q.push(i);
            }
        }
    }
    return false;//找不到增广路了，结束
}
int EK(int s, int t)
{
    int ans = 0;
    while(BFS(s, t))
    {
        int mi = INF;//初始化最大
        for(int i = t; i != s; i = pre[i])
        {
            mi = min(mi, mp[pre[i]][i]);//增广路上能满足的流
        }
        for(int i = t; i != s; i = pre[i])//找到一条增广路，更新图
        {
            mp[pre[i]][i] -= mi;
            mp[i][pre[i]] += mi;
        }
        ans += mi;
    }
    return ans;
}
int main()
{
    while(~scanf("%d%d", &m, &n))
    {
        memset(mp, 0, sizeof(mp));
        int u, v, w;
        for(int i = 1; i <= m; i++)
        {
            scanf("%d%d%d", &u, &v, &w);
            mp[u][v] += w;
        }
        printf("%d\n", EK(1, n));
    }
    return 0;
}
```
